Volag: Team Progress Report

Progress Check #1 - 10/4/17
Progress Check #2 - 10/20/17

Alex Hahn
    Target Goals
        Analyze correlations between flight and weather features (heatmap and correlation matrix)
            Trim out features that will not be useful in our analysis
        Implement Naive Bayes classification (class : {delayed | non-delayed}, features = {temp, wdsp, dewp, etc.})
        Create other visualizations (flight delays on a map, weather patterns on a map, flight delay v. weather feature)
        Continue looking for more granular weather data

    Achieved Goals/Activities
        @TODO

Alex Hahn
    Target Goals
        Cleanup and document data_munging notebook
        Continue looking for improved weather data (more than once per day)
        Train a SVM using flight and weather data
        Document data files (sources, column explanations and guidance on reading)
        Check merged flight data for missing information

    Achieved Goals/Activities
        Cleanup and document data_munging notebook

Cory Sabol - Work primarily in the decision tree ipynb
    Target Goals
        1. Continue to analyze importance of features
        2. Label data as delayed or not based on delay time threshold
        3. Pairplot variables thought significant with category of delay type
        4. Train decision tree model on variables thought to be significant
        5. Retrain model on flights which are either delayed by weather or not delayed at all
        6. Look into normalizing data and fitting it to a distribution, perhaps this will help us
           better determine which features are the most important.
        7. Create animation of flights on map (it would be cool!)
        8. Analyze decision tree feature importances.
        9. Visualize decision tree if possible.

    Acheived Goals
        1. Determined that scheduled departure time, origin temp, origin percip,
           origin visibility were all pretty important variables, which seemed to
           correlate well with flights that were delayed due to weather.
        2. Labeled data with two new columns, delay_type (largest factor in delay time)
           and label (DELAYED or NOTDELAYED).
        3. Pairplot was generated on important variables.
        4. Decision tree was trained on aforementioned variables, 74% accuracy
           was acheived.
        5. Used a better method of splitting the data into training and testing, retrained model
           still acheived about 74% accuracy. 
     
